# NED settings details
----------------------

  This NED is equipped with a number of runtime configuration options "NED settings" allowing for
  customization by the end user. All options are configurable using the NSO API for NED settings.
  Most NED settings can be configured globally, per device profile or per device instance in the
  following locations:

  global
    /ncs:devices/global-settings/ned-settings/a10-acos/
  profile
    /ncs:devices/ncs:profiles/profile:<name>/ned-settings/a10-acos/
  device
    /ncs:/device/devices/device:<name>/ned-settings/a10-acos/

  Profiles setting overrides global-settings and device settings override profile settings,
  hence the narrowest scope of the setting is used by the device.

  If user changes a ned-setting, then user must reconnect to the device, i.e.
  disconnect and connect in order for the new setting to take effect.

  From the NSO CLI the device instance NED settings for this NED are available under:

   ```
   # config
   # devices device dev-1 ned-settings a10-acos

   Press TAB to see all the NED settings.

   ```


# Table of contents
-------------------

  ```
  1. ned-settings a10-acos
  2. a10-connection-settings
  3. live-status
  4. connection
  5. proxy
  6. developer
  7. rpc-actions
     7.1. expect-patterns
  8. dynamic-errors
  9. logger
  10. transaction
  ```


# 1. ned-settings a10-acos
--------------------------

  a10-acos device specific NED settings.


    - a10-acos trans-id-method <enum> (default config-hash)

      Configure how the NED shall calculate the transaction id. Typically used after each commit and
      for check-sync operations.

      config-hash              - Use a snapshot of the running config for calculation.(default).

      last-modified-timestamp  - Use the 'time last modified' time stamp generated by the device for
                                 calculation. Note, this time stamp is not available on all devices.
                                 See README.

      last-saved-timestamp     - Use the 'time last saved' time stamp generated by the device for
                                 calculation. Note, this method is not reliable. See README.


    - a10-acos a10-active-partition <string>

      Active partition.


    - a10-acos a10-abort-when-config-session-exist <true|false> (default false)

      Active partition.


    - a10-acos a10-write-memory-all-partitions <true|false> (default true)

      Set to true if the device supports write memory all-partitions.


    - a10-acos extended-parser <enum> (default auto)

      Make the a10-acos NED handle CLI parsing (i.e. transform the running-config from the device to
      the model based config tree).

      disabled         - Load configuration the standard way.

      robust-mode      - The configuration dump is run through a pre-parser which is cleaning it
                         from all elements currently not supported in the YANG model (default).

      turbo-mode       - The NED executes the whole command parsing by itself, completely bypassing
                         the NSO CLI parser. The configuration dump is transferred to NSO using a
                         Maapi SetValues() call.

      turbo-xml-mode   - The NED executes the whole command parsing by itself, completely bypassing
                         the NSO CLI parser. The configuration dump is transferred to NSO in XML
                         format.

      old-robust-mode  - Makes the NED alter the config dump such that all mode switches are always
                         done from top and down instead of from below and up (with the 'exit'
                         command) before given to the NCS/NSO parser.
The number of lines in the
                         config dump will increase a lot with this feature enabled. (default).

      auto             - Uses turbo-mode when available, will use fastest availablemethod to load
                         data to NSO. If NSO doesn't support data-loading from CLI NED, robust-mode
                         is used.


    - a10-acos partial-show-method <enum> (default full-config)

      Configure partial show method execution.

      full-config     - Fetch full configuration from the device and filter the config. This method
                        should be used for devices not supporting partial show commands, eg show
                        running-config access-list 100.

      partial-config  - Sends partial show commands to the device to fetch onlythe needed part of
                        the config.


    - a10-acos shared-partition-mode <enum> (default in-config)

      Set the shared partition location: directly under config or under partition-config.

      in-partition-config  - Shared partition placed under partition-config.

      in-config            - Shared partition directly under root config.


# 2. ned-settings a10-acos a10-connection-settings
--------------------------------------------------

  Configure settings specific to the connection between NED and device.


    - a10-connection-settings device-output-delay <NUM> (default 0)

      Delay in milliseconds after each config command output to the device.


# 3. ned-settings a10-acos live-status
--------------------------------------

  Configure NED settings related to live-status.


    - live-status time-to-live <int32> (default 50)

      Define time-to-live for data fetched from the device via live-status.(default 50).


# 4. ned-settings a10-acos connection
-------------------------------------

  Connection configuration.


    - connection ssh client <enum> (default ganymed)

      Configure the SSH client to use. Relevant only when using the NED with NSO 5.6 or later.

      ganymed  - The legacy SSH client. Used on all older versions of NSO.

      sshj     - The new SSH client with support for the latest crypto features. This is the default
                 when using the NED on NSO 5.6 or later.


    - connection ssh host-key known-hosts-file <string>

      Path to openssh formatted 'known_hosts' file containing valid host keys.


    - connection ssh host-key public-key-file <string>

      Path to openssh formatted public (.pub) host key file.


    - connection ssh auth-key private-key-file <string>

      Path to openssh formatted private key file.


    - connection number-of-retries <uint8> (default 0)

      Configure max number of extra retries the NED will try to connect to the device before giving
      up. Default 0.


    - connection time-between-retry <uint8> (default 1)

      Configure the time in seconds the NED will wait between each connect retry. Default 1s.


    - connection send-login-newline <true|false> (default false)


# 5. ned-settings a10-acos proxy
--------------------------------

  Configure NED to access device via a proxy.


    - proxy remote-connection <enum>

      Connection type between proxy and device.

      ssh     - ssh.

      telnet  - telnet.

      serial  - serial.


    - proxy remote-address <union>

      Address of host behind the proxy.


    - proxy remote-port <uint16>

      Port of host behind the proxy.


    - proxy remote-name <string>

      User name on the device behind the proxy.


    - proxy remote-password <string>

      Password on the device behind the proxy.


    - proxy remote-secondary-password <string>

      Password on the device behind the proxy.


    - proxy proxy-prompt <string>

      Prompt pattern on the proxy host.


    - proxy remote-ssh-args <string>

      Additional arguments used to establish proxy connection.


# 6. ned-settings a10-acos developer
------------------------------------

  Contains settings used by the NED developers.


    - developer load-from-file <string>

      Make the NED load a file containing raw device config when doing sync-from. Does only work on
      NETSIM targets.


    - developer trace-connection <true|false> (default false)

      Enable developer connection tracing. WARNING: may choke NSO with large printouts.


    - developer platform model <string>

      Override device model name/number.


    - developer platform name <string>

      Override device name.


    - developer platform version <string>

      Override device version.


# 7. ned-settings a10-acos rpc-actions
--------------------------------------

  RPC actions related configurations.


## 7.1. ned-settings a10-acos rpc-actions expect-patterns
---------------------------------------------------------

  List of expected patterns and prompts when executing commands. It can be used to define custom
  expected patterns, for example to wait for a number of characters (eg .....) in order to implement
  an automatic time-out reset mechanism. NOTE: the patterns represent regular expressions.

    - rpc-actions expect-patterns <pattern>

      - pattern <string>


# 8. ned-settings a10-acos dynamic-errors
-----------------------------------------

  List of device errors. The NED will throw error when it encounter a message from this list.

    - a10-acos dynamic-errors <error>

      - error <string>


# 9. ned-settings a10-acos logger
---------------------------------

  Settings for controlling logs generated.


    - logger level <enum> (default info)

      Set level of logging.

      error    - error.

      info     - info.

      verbose  - verbose.

      debug    - debug.


    - logger java <true|false> (default true)

      Toggle logs to be added to ncs-java-vm.log.


# 10. ned-settings a10-acos transaction
---------------------------------------


    - transaction cleartext-provisioning <enum> (default enabled)

      Enable this to allow for cleartext key/passwords provisioning without going out-of-sync(i.e.
      where device obfuscates/encrypts value in running-config).

      enabled   - enabled.

      disabled  - disabled.


    - transaction cleartext-stored-encrypted <enum> (default disabled)

      When 'cleartext-provisioning' is enabled, enable this setting to enforce keys/passwords CDB
      storedvalues to be encrypted using NSO's built in encryption types (e.g.
      'tailf:aes-cfb-128-encrypted-string').NOTE: the type of the values in the yang-model of alu-sr
      is NOT the encrypted type by default, it is still plain 'string'. However, the service
      template/code used to set the values must use an encrypted type.The NED can be instructed to
      use tailf:aes-cfb-128-encrypted-string for passwords by default and hence to do
      auto-encryption of the passwords, but this requires to recompile the NED with
      NEDCOM_SECRET_TYPE flag set (eg 'make NEDCOM_SECRET_TYPE="tailf:aes-cfb-128-encrypted-string"
      clean all').

      enabled   - enabled.

      disabled  - disabled.


